= scrumdashboard

== About

"Scrumdashboard" is a plugin for Redmine. It enables Redmine to better support 
the Scrum process by giving the users access to a digital "dashboard". This shows 
the status for the current sprint through a digital representation of a whiteboard 
with post-it notes detailing User Stories/Features/etc (from the product backlog) 
which is often used with projects using Scrum.

The data used in the application to display this information is taken from the
"Versions","Trackers" and "Issues" you register in your Redmine project.

In other words, the application does not allow you to register new information,
it just allows you to display the current registered information in a new 
manner to give you a quick status overview. It also allows for manipulation of
some of the data (specifically dragging & dropping user stories/tasks to 
new statues - by supporting the workflow configured for the project).

A typical scenario involves a number of versions, that can be named such as
"Sprint 1", "Sprint 2" and a series of trackers, such as "User Story", "Feature", 
"Bug". It will display all the trackers that are linked to a specific version
(sprint) in the application. 

You can find out more about Redmine here: http://www.redmine.org/


== Features

Scrumdashboard supports the following: 
- Drag & Drop to change the status of an issue, following the workflow
- Change the types of statuses/trackers displayed on the dashboard
- Column sorting for statuses
- Choose which version to display on the dashboard
- Tooltips for each issue
- Display all the issues or only the issues assigned to the current user
- Configure colors for issues displayed


== Installation

To install the Scrumdashboard please follow the steps outlined below.

1. Copy the "redmine_scrumdashboard" folder to "\vendor\plugins" 
(Example:  c:\ruby\redmine-0.8.0\vendor\plugins)

2. Execute 'rake db:migrate_plugins' from the redmine installation path
(Example:  c:\ruby\redmine-0-8> rake db:migrate_plugins ) 

NOTE: A restart of the web server/application might be required for the 
plugin to be detected by redmine.


== Configuration

Before you can begin using the application for your project, it must be
enabled. This can be done by accessing the "project settings" page, usually
accessible from the 'setttings' menu option in the project menu in Redmine
(for the project).

From the settings page, you click the 'modules' tab then tick the checkbox
next to "Redmine scrumdashboard" and click 'save' to enable it for your
current project. NOTE: This setting is a per-project option.

"Scrumdashboard" must be configured before it can be used. This configuration
can be accessed through the "Dashboard" link in the top menu of Redmine, and
then by clicking the 'Settings' button in the top right corner.

You need to configure a 'main tracker' for the application to work. This is
usually what you in scrum would know as a 'user story'. You have an option to
configure several main trackers if your project requires this.

To configure a main tracker, you access the 'settings' page. In this new page
you will see a list of "Trackers on this Dashboard" with checkboxes for each
tracker, as well as a checkbox for "Maintracker?". The first column lets you
configure which trackers you wish to display in the application, the second
column lets you configure which trackers are to be treated as main trackers. 

On this same page you also have an option to configure which colours the
various trackers will have. For example you could have the tracker you select
as your maintracker in yellow, "Bugs" in Red, etc. 


== FAQ

Q: How do I find the Dashboard after it has been installed?
A: The Dashboard will be available from the project menu after the module has been enabled in Redmine project settings.

Q: How can I change and customize the way the Dashboard looks? (Admin)
A: By clicking "Settings" located in the upper right corner, you can choose the colors used on the issues displayed
 : on the Dashboard

Q: How do I choose which trackers to be displayed in the Dashboard? (Admin)
A: On the "Settings" page you can configure which "Trackers on this Dashboard" to display.

Q: What is a "Maintracker"?
A: A maintracker (For example "User Story") is used by the Dashboard to group issues together. All issues related to
 : a maintracker issue will be shown in the same row in the Dashboard.

Q: How do I relate issues to the correct maintracker?
A: When you view an issue you have an option to "Add" a related issue, here you can pick an issue (set as maintracker)
 : you wish to relate to, for example a User Story.

Q: How do I select which Maintracker(s) my project uses? (Admin)
A: On the "Settings" page you can set one or more trackers as a "Maintracker".

Q: How do I select which statuses to be displayed in Dashboard? (Admin)
A: On the "Settings" page you have a "Status" tab, here you can select which statuses are displayed.

Q: How does the Dashboard use "versions"?
A: On the Dashboard, we group the various issues/tasks/trackers together under a version you have configured.
 : In a project using the Scrum process, this will normally be a sprint. 

Q: How do I select which version to be displayed on the Dashboard? 
A: Located top-left on the Dashboard you can "Choose version" through the dropdown box. The version added last is
 : selected by default.

Q: How do I display issues assigned to me?
A: In the top left of the Dashboard, you have a Filter dropdown box. Here you can choose between "all" or "mine".

Q: How do I add language support?
A: In the "redmine_scrumdashboard\lang" folder all the .yml language files are located. 
 : Make a copy of an existing file and translate the options. 


== Ideas for future versions

1: Show tasks priority in dashboard
Implement a way to show priority level on tasks, directly in dashboard

2: More advanced filter for selecting and sorting tasks on dashboard, similar to "Issues" 

3: Code optimization and cleanup 

4: Improve design
Improve general design in dashboard interface, better "looks" on visualized tasks.
One idea here is to use a similar design to Google Calendar.

5: Wide language support
Add support for more languages



== Database

The plugin adds a couple of new tables to the database:


	trackers			projects		      statuses
	    |				   |				 |
	    |			   +--------------+			 |
	    |			   |  dashboards  |			 |
	    |			   +--------------+			 |
	    |                      | *id          |			 |
            |                      | #project_id  |			 |
	    |			   +--------------+			 |
	    |			     |          |                        |
            |        +---------------+          +------------+           |
	    |        |                                       |           |
+----------------------+				+----------------------+
|  dashboard_trackers  |				|  dashboard_statuses  |
+----------------------+				+----------------------+
| *id                  |				| *id                  |
| #dashboard_id        |				| #dashboard_id        |
| #tracker_id          |				| #status_id           |
|  maintracker         |				+----------------------+
|  bgcolor             |
|  textcolor           |
+----------------------+

* = primary key
# = foreign key



== Development

"Scrumdashboard" was a project run and developed by students from the University
of Agder (www.uia.no) as a bachelor project for 3rd year students studying 
IT & Information systems. 

It was developed for "Redmine 0.8.0.stable (MySQL)". It has not been tested for any 
other version of Redmine.

The team consisted of :
Terje Alexander Barth - Project Manager
Marius Olsen - Quality Manager
Einar Myre - Lead Developer
Mats Klepsland - Lead Developer

The team can be reached at scrumdashboard@googlegroups.com.
